they began very early today at I had a
wake-up call for four o'clock but I was
up before i got the wake-up call this is
something I've been waiting on for a
long time and it's going to it's been a
long haul and it's been pretty exciting
was all I could even get to sleep last
night saying to just as the Sun was
coming up we're going up the James River
towards a towards fort eustis from a
ghostly this morning as we were coming
in and the lights just coming out
finally as the fleet came in sight I can
see that big white ship hanging out on
the end and I told the rest of the folks
on board that's our boat that's our ship
and then it was it a fatty acid that's
got to be if there's nothing else that
looks like that and that the profile as
you can see is highly distinctive and
that white paint job sure makes her
stand out it was it was amazing it just
made my heart kind of stayed up just to
see it sitting up there in the sleep and
then we saw the times come in and start
to read up to it
sure went up with it when it actually
broke out night I called Joe and I says
he's under way naked way and so we had a
pretty exciting moment after a long wait
it was it was amazing coming down the
the James River but seeing all of those
ships that have been here in Los ball
for all these years was was fascinating
I think ours is the coolest in the bunch
but that's a personal opinion it's kinda
like a bomb I guess and then as we were
coming down the river we saw all of the
working waterfronts and oyster boats and
and large shipping and military ship and
there's a lot going on in these waters
of stuff it's very historic the first
major break was the James River Bridge
coming in from the water of course it
looked like a long way up and when I
first saw that bridge starting to rise
in our and our ship was with the tugs
positioning it to go under the high spot
of the bridge it was a pretty thrilling
moment it was pretty exciting I saw a
few folks get out of their cars and and
step off the shut up to the side of the
bridge take a look at it and there's
kind of a little funny story here the
ship was used in a in a movie removing
virus which is strata nning flutters
and so although the name of the ships is
the general Hoyt Vandenberg it has a
Russian name painted on the side as part
of this movie makeup so I think when
people got out and saw what looked like
a Russian spy ship floating down the
river it must've have provoked a lot of
questions it was kind of interesting to
see people getting out of their cars and
looking at it and I'm sure there was a
lot of head-scratching going on as she
went by but sure enough it made it under
the bridge and then we had to further on
down the river you know the channel of
course is it's a busy working harbour
and so we're coming into this small
harbour and we came back out again and
we were up very close to the ship that
she was coming by and from the water
line and the small vessel and looking up
with that ships it looks like a lot of
ship she's going to be a really really
interesting relief as a diver a long
times I've run I've been excited about
getting in the water with this for a
long time and you can she see what a
huge piece of reef that's going to be
when a big artifact is going to be on
the bottom so we start going by just on
the other side of the James River Bridge
followed the ship's channel down a
little bit further and then we come to
the narrow part right at the as a
virtually bridge the way narrow is quite
a bit we're coming into the Elizabeth
River the east branch of the Elizabeth
River and that's where our shipyard
Gowanus shipyards which is another piece
of maritime history that's famous in the
norfolk area they've been here for well
over a century I saw raised that bridge
and I must say I have a great deal of
admiration for the tugboat captain's
that brought her through that space that
I was saying to the folks on board I
thought they were going to have to paint
a lot of Greeson I did get to get it out
of that bridge but they maneuver disra
beautifully and and once again it was it
was up real close to the vessel issue
was fielded through the bridge and that
was that was another fascinating and a
little bit of a heart-stopping piece of
maneuvering great work on the parts of
our maritime
operators out here good work on the part
of the tug company she looks a little
bit on the rusty and stressing side but
all together it's a it's a really
interesting whole it's it's going to
create a great marine habitats once it's
on the bottom there are going to be a
lot of open spaces where fish can
shelter and breed and will substantially
increase the fishery down in Key West
the way the technical contract mechanism
is that the as soon as the tugboats tugs
the boat away from the raft today the
title transfers from the US government
from there add to the state of Florida
for about 15 seconds and then it went to
the city of the studio so to us we have
a contract to our car clients who as an
agreement with the city to us to prepare
and ticket every the city is very
excited going to be a big benefit to
manage going to bring an attraction for
fishing recreations of diving recreation
we do have an expert team that we've
assembled respective total part of the
research teams we've done a number of
these projects before de has though has
a lot of experience with ships are the
USS Stegall Grove in 2002 and then the
USS oriskany last year and so we have
learned some lessons from the previous
projects things that didn't go so well
things that went a lot better and we've
applied that to the Vandenberg in the
Vandenberg even though it's taking quite
a bit of time we feel that we have the
process down now we've learned that you
can't do it with volunteer effort alone
it helps it gets the project going and
they're volunteers are great but you
have to really have it managed
professionally because they're just so
complex to such a complex project and
then that's our that's one of the
lessons we learned to do it right it
does cost more money but that was to do
it right yet you have to